--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Title: Data Science Project Investigating Athletics World Records
Author: Rosie Evans
Date: 2025-04-09
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Introduction

 This project creates a blog post style GitPages site to investigate trends in Athletics World Records for both men and women. It does so using webscraped data, as well as downloaded csv files.
 It generates both tabular and graphical output.
...

## Repository overview
This repository is structured as follows:

├── README
├── Makefile
├── immigrationHeterogeneity.tex (markdown.md)
├── data
├── src (athletics.py)
└── results
    ├── figures
    └── tables

All data is contained in the data sub-directory, all source code is contained
in src, and all output is automatically exported to results.  

## Running instructions

In order to replicate all results, if make is available it should be sufficient
to type "make" at the command line. Prior to running make, the only change req-
quired is to change the directory location indicated as ROOT in the python file
in the src directory

Alternatively, if make is not available, the following steps should be followed:
  (1) Run athletics.py in the source directory using python 3 after
      changing the ROOT directory in the code (line 29).  This can be done with
        python3 athletics.py
  (2) Compile the latex file in the top level.  This can be done with.
        xelatex immigrationHeterogeneity.tex
        bibtex immigrationHeterogeneity.aux      
        xelatex immigrationHeterogeneity.tex
        xelatex immigrationHeterogeneity.tex
  
This has been tested using Python 3.12.3 for linux. Within python, a number
of additional libraries are required.  These are indicated below, along with
the version number used to generate original results:
> matplotlib 3.5.2
> numpy 1.21.5
> pandas 1.4.4
> statsmodels 0.13.2
> seaborn 0.11.2
> tabulate 0.8.10
 

## More resources

The tables which were webscraped can be found below:
  Wikipedia contributors. "List of world records in athletics." Wikipedia.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_world_records_in_athletics.

Data in keely_data.csv can be found below: 
 The Power of 10. "Athlete Profile: Keely Hodgkinson." The Power of 10.
https://www.thepowerof10.info/athletes/profile.aspx?athleteid=525443.

Data in dobs.csv was taken from individual athletes' Wikipedia pages.

## About

This repository was generated by Rosie Evans.  For queries:
 mailto:rje215@exeter.ac.uk
 